Hello everybody and welcome to your scene and asset design in this lecture with jumping straight into
the challenge because this is something you can do without even opening up blender.
However what I'd like you to do is design your scene and assets.
Now I already have an idea in mind what mine will be it will be a ground it will be a maybe a box that
the lamp will jump on to.
So there's going to be three maybe four main things in the scene itself.
So whether you use Blender pen a paper or whatever you can go ahead and design that scene and as well
as designing that scene what I'd like you to envision is how your lamp is actually going to look.
I'm going to keep mine very simple as well so keep it simple.
If you're new to this if you have done this sort of thing before be more adventurous.
If you have that greater experience now we're going to be mainly focused on rigging and animating more
than modeling.
That's something to bear in mind if you want to take it the next step and make a really detailed model
then that's great.
I'm really looking forward to seeing that.
And remember once you've done that show off your scene and your lamp designs and then of course we can
look back at that later and actually assess how close you were to your concept when it comes to the
final design.
Possibly now and give that a go
OK everybody welcome back.
So let's go ahead.
I'm going to hop into blender here but I'm going to show you the process I went through when designing
my assets.
Okay.
So first of all in front of us here I've got a digital sketching program called critter or critter you
may have heard of it.
It is free.
And this would be a great example of how you might use you know even Microsoft Paint in order to construct
your scene.
I'm going to go grab a line tool here and I'm gonna put my ground on and then a box on top of it as
well.
So this is my basic scene.
I don't really need much else and.
This is certainly easier than showing you pen and paper but when it comes to the lamp design I wanted
to go a little bit more not adventurous but I wanted to play with different ideas.
So I'm definitely going to have a base to my lamp and it's going to be a sort of hemisphere light that
also maybe the top of one and then it needs some way of rotating so there's going to be an inset there
with I don't know something so the lamp can rotate independently of the base itself and then from there
I'm going to keep it nice and simple I'm going to have an arm or two arms coming up here with another
arm coming from it which is really useful.
And at the top here I'm going to have what's known as a ball joint which you'll give me the freedom
of being able to move around the lampshade which is obviously a truncated cone that will sits on top.
So let's have a look at my other fully drawn sketch of this particular lamp and see what I came up with
from multiple angles.
Okay.
So here we go here's a rough quick sketch of kind of maybe the system I want to go for I might not make
it this complex but it's a good idea to have a feeling of how complicated you want to make it.
So having a look at it from the front I have not included lampshade here because that's pretty much
either a cylinder or a cone that we strap on the end.
So we've got a mechanism here that we need to think of.
So we've got an arm or two arms going up and then a single arm in the middle of those two going to the
top of a ball joint.
And again the ball joint is just to make my life easier and enable it to rotate round completely freely
and not look odd.
The base will come down so maybe a tuning fork style coming in here and coming out again.
I'm not quite sure I may blend these two things together and not make such a complex mechanism down
here and just keep it simple.
This arm here this arm here and the ball joints at the top.
But that's something that I might be aiming for during this as you can see here is nice and simple sketching
I've just hashed it to show you the individual components it's easier to see the side.
I'd love to see what you came up with as well have you gone for this sort of very basic design so you
can focus on the rigging or animation and if you've gone that step further I'm really looking forward
to seeing what your concept lamps are going to be and how they progress as you go through the rest of
this section and actually bring them to life over in blender.
So please do share your work over in the discussions and I'll see you all in the next lecture.